# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-08-24

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies KÃ¶per
- Released cf CLI 6.21.1, fixing community reported bugs including a regression around ansi coloring in `cf logs` on Windows, and digitally signing the Windows binaries.
- Created a Debian package repository to allow users to install and update their cf CLI using `apt-get`. Investigating RPM.
- Kept refactoring on a branch while waiting for updates to a PR with translations, planning to merge soon.
- Identified a number of complications with maintain translations with the Goflags library introduced to replace the home-built command parsing logic. Taking into account the burden on the team of internationalization, a lack of other common CLI tools with built-in translations to use for reference, and low stats for non-English downloaders (judging from Accept-Language HTTP header), we wrote [a proposal to limit translations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dMDPgDt-9YVScTRLUC_AnOmnFkV8zoAjqujsrsVKlOc/edit?ts=57b5f340#) to cover only the help pages, i.e. leave error and status messages in English. Asking input from IBM.
- Exploring some tweaks to the new [proposed](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YasoPyhuajxcecV0QuFAtvnscR0ZZ1_vterDVXY8qDM/edit?usp=sharing) `cf help` output.
- Considering to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) soon after releasing the new help.

### Garden

#### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

- Very close to shipping v0.2.0 with support for Docker images
- Hit some speed bumps when trying to implement disk quotas as an unprivileged user, but now have a pattern to work around the restrictions in btrfs and the kernel
- Taking first steps to integrate with Garden-runC via PRs and validate that integration

#### Garden Core - Julz Friedman

- Slow progress last couple weeks due to multiple team vacations, conferences, support issues
- Garden-runc is now on 10% of the cells in PWS and feedback so far is good!
- Will be releasing garden-runc 0.6 tomorrow (pending acceptance of final story), bug fix release which improves handling of re-attaching to processes after restart, including returning correct exit code after restart (very long-running concourse feature request), fixes a bug where output is dropped if a process exits while writing to a TTY and ensures the semantics of `Lookup` match that of garden-linux to fix some inigo flakes
- Lots of PR merges (and a few more to go)
- Beginning x-team pairing with diego to investigate performance on Softlayer
- Hoping to get back to rootless-garden work this week now our velocity is picking back up

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Observed slow garden-linux performance on SoftLayer cells, cross-team pairing with Garden to investigate
- Nearly done with new app-pusher and app-monitoring tools in diego-perf-release
- Will assess 5000-instance performance on AWS, GCE, and SoftLayer
- Tightened sizing requirements for cells in CF-driven scale tests
- Cell persists download cache across restarts
- Continuing `cfdot` development: BOSH-deployable, can connect via TLS, list domains and ActualLRPs
- Produced initial version of proposal for API to update LRP definitions; refining and will circulate to CAPI, other teams for input soon


### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Amit Gupta

### Release Integration - Amit Gupta

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Allow starts to be retried elsewhere if DEA is evacuating

- Delivered first story for Isolation Segments 

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar
- V3 migration track is code complete! Several stories to validate and document the migration.

### PERSI - Ted Young
- Volume Services updated in v2.10 Service Broker API. New API is GA, will be supported with backwards compatibility.
- Work on AWS EFS Volume Driver has begun.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Working on merging container networking changes to Garden. Currently implementing changes to NetIn and NetOut to ensure a network is available to a container when it comes up, as per suggestions from Garden team
- Working with Shannon on the concept of endpoints as it applies to routing and network policies
- Upcoming work around testing scalability and robustness

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
